# Teleporter Verify
Once the math challenge is solved in the Hall of Ruins, the north room containing the Teleporter is unlocked.<br><br>
The results of 'use teleporter' in the game depend on the contents of the eighth register, which is reset to 0 by the self-test at startup. With value 0, the teleporter works in "safe mode" and it jumps to Synacor HQ, where a 'strange book' can be found detailing the teleporter operation. See the in-game text captured in Teleporter.txt in this repo. Other than that, Synacor HQ is a dead-end from which regular movements are impossible.<br><br>
By setting the eighth register (or r7 in my disassembly) to a nonzero value, the teleporter works in regular mode. At address 0x1587, function 0x17a1 is invoked, which computes Ackermann(4, 1). The compute result needs to be 6, otherwise the teleporter jump will be aborted.<br><br>
The dreaded Ackermann function can be tamed by caching results 'from the ground up', see Teleporter.c in this repo. This allows to fill in the proper value for the eighth register so that the verification would succeed, but it would still take a long time. In order to move on, the verification needs to be bypassed anyhow (e.g. with NOPs at address 0x1587), but as the register contents influence the calculation of the coveted display codes, the proper setting should be filled in, even without any verification taking place.<br><br>
It seems actually feasible to perform the full-blown computation of Ackermann(4, 1) within the game itself, with a moderate amount of both stack space and time. My test with a stack of 100K shorts ran for 3 weeks straight on an Intel i7, satisfying the game requirements and teleporting to the Beach. Obviously, this would have been of little use to the participants of OSCON over a decade ago. Most importantly, this does **not** affect the calculation of the final display code after opening the Vault.